{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2867
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww25400\viewh14400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs64 \cf0 											
\f1\b TypeScript Architecture\
 1. Core Compiler\
	 
\f0\b0 - It is responsible for translating the typescript code into OS native. \
	 - It identifies the issues in code and reports as errors. \
	 - Compiler manages various interactions through different components\
			\
			core.ts				loads the core library required for program.\
			program.ts		checks the code blocks and execution flow.\
			scanner.ts		responsible for handling input.\
			emitter.ts			responsible for handling output.\
			checker.ts		verifies the data types.\
			parser.ts			responsible for converting one type to another.\
			etc.\
\
 
\f1\b 2. Standalone TS compiler	\
	
\f0\b0 - It is a trans compiler responsible for translating Typescript code into Javascript. \
	- 
\f1\b \'93tsc.ts\'94
\f0\b0  handles trans compiling.\
\
 
\f1\b 3. Language Service\
	
\f0\b0 - Service is a pre-defined business logic. \
	- It is a set of factories with functions & values required for typescript application.\
	- \'93
\f1\b services.ts\'94 
\f0\b0 handles library. \
	- It is OS relative library.\
\
 
\f1\b 4. Managed Language Service \
	
\f0\b0 - Managed code is the code understandable to every operating system service. \
	- It makes the library OS neutral. \
\
 
\f1\b 5. Shims Library\
	
\f0\b0 - Shim is a library used to make platform independent services. \
	- It is responsible for converting the \'93unmanaged\'94 code into \'93managed\'94 code. \
	- \'93
\f1\b shims.ts
\f0\b0 \'94 manages all interactions on unmanaged code. \
\
 
\f1\b 6. TS Server\
	
\f0\b0 - Typescript provides a native server to host application.\
	- It handles request and response. \
	- It can process the application in processing pipeline.\
	- \'93
\f1\b server.ts\'94 
\f0\b0 handles the server. \
\
\
	
\f1\b Setup Typescript & Create Typescript Project:\
\
	
\f0\b0 1. Open your command prompt or terminal \
		\
				> npm  install   -g  typescript \
\
	2. Check the version of typescript \
	\
				> tsc  -v\
\
	3. Create a new folder for typescript project\
			\
				D:\\ts-project\
\
	4. Open in visual studio code \
\
	5. Run the following commands in project terminal \
\
				> npm init -y            => generates 
\f1\b package.json
\f0\b0 \
				> tsc -init                 => generates 
\f1\b tsconfig.json
\f0\b0 \
	\
		
\f1\b Note: 
\f0\b0 \'93tsconfig.json\'94 is typescript configuration and language analysis tool.\
				   Early version use 2 files:\
					a) tslint.json\
					b) tsconfig.json \
\
	6. Add a new file into project \'93index.ts\'94 with following code\
\
				console.log(\'93Welcome to Typescript\'94);\
\
	7. Compile from terminal \
\
				> tsc  index.ts              => generates index.js \
\
	6. Run index.js with node compiler \
\
				> node index.js\
\
	\
	
\f1\b Typescript Language:\
	
\f0\b0 \
	\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
	\
\
\
\
\
}