{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2867
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red144\green1\blue18;\red19\green118\blue70;\red15\green112\blue1;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c100000;
\cssrgb\c63922\c8235\c8235;\cssrgb\c3529\c52549\c34510;\cssrgb\c0\c50196\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww25400\viewh14400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs64 \cf0 											   
\f1\b Typescript Language\
  	
\f0\b0 1. Variables\
	2. Data Types\
	3. Operators\
	4. Statements\
	5. Functions\
	6. OOPS\
	7. Modules & Namespaces \
\
\
	
\f1\b Variables & Data Types\
	
\f0\b0 - Variable configuration in typescript comprises of \
		a) keyword [var, let, const]\
		b) data type [any Javascript data type]\
\
	 Syntax:\
			keyword  variableName: dataType;                       // declaration \
			keyword  variableName: dataType = value;          // initialization \
\
	 Ex:\
			let price:number = 1000;\
			let name:string = \'93A\'94;\
			let stock:boolean = true;\
	\
	- All Javascript primitive types are same \
			\
			number, boolean, string, null, undefined, symbol, bigint\
	\
	- Typescript supports 
\f1\b type inference. 
\f0\b0 The data type can be determined according to \
	   the value initialized. \
\
	- If value is not defined then the default is 
\f1\b \'93any\'94 
\f0\b0 type, which is the root for all types.\
	\
			 let  age;            // age is any \
			 age = 10;			 // valid\
			 age = \'93A\'94;		 // valid \
\
			 let age = 20;	 // age is number\
			 age = \'93A\'94;        // invalid \
  \
	- Typescript supports 
\f1\b \'93union\'94 
\f0\b0 of types. It allows to configure multiple types.\
\
			let  uname : null | string = prompt(\'91Enter Name\'92);\
			let  x : number | string | boolean; \
\
	- All number methods, string methods and other manipulations on primitive types are\
	  same as in Javascript. \
\
			let price:number = 4000;\
			price.toFixed(), toLocaleString(), toPrecision()\
			isNaN(price) etc..\
		\
			let name:string = \'93John\'94;\
			name.length\
			name.charAt()\
			name.split() etc..
\f1\b \
	\
	Handling Non Primitive & Complex types:\
	
\f0\b0 \
	1. Array		\
	   - Typescript array can handle various types like Javascript and can also restrict\
		  array to similar type of values. \
		\
		 Syntax:\
				 let  names:string[] = new Array();\
				 let  names:string[] = [ ];\
\
				 let  values:any[] = [ ];\
				 values[0] = 10;\
				 values[1] = \'93A\'94;\
				 values[2] = true;\
\
	 - You can\'92t initialize various types of values using an array constructor even when\
		the data type is any. \
	 - You can handle various types assignment not 
\f1\b initialization
\f0\b0 .\
\
				 let values:any[] = new Array(10, \'93A\'94);   // invalid  first value type is used for\
											                                     others. 
\f1\b \
				 
\f0\b0 let values:any[]  = [ 10, \'93A\'94, true];         // valid \
\

\f1\b 	 
\f0\b0 - Array constructor will allow assignment of various types but will not allow initialization when data type is defined as 
\f1\b any. \
\
				
\f0\b0  let values:any[] = new Array();\
				 values[0] = 10;\
				 values[1] = \'93A\'94;      // valid \
				 values[2] = true;    // valid \
\
	- If array is allowed with a collection of various types of values initialization & assignment then it is known as a 
\f1\b Tuple. \
	\
				  
\f0\b0 let values:any[] = [ ];       // tuple \
	\
	- Array can configure union of types. However it will not allow to initialize all types\
	  defined in union. You can assign all types in union. \
\
				  let values:string[] | number[] = [ 10, \'93A\'94 ] ;    // invalid \
												                  [ 10, 20 ]  ;    // valid\
												                  [ \'93A\'94, \'93B\'94] ;     // valid \
 \
				  values[0] = 10;       // valid\
				  values[1] = \'93A\'94;      // valid \
\
	- All array methods are same as in Javascript.\
\
   2. Object\
		- Typescript object type is schema based. \
		- It configures structured data. \
		- Properties defined in structure are mandatory to configure. [default rule]\
		\
		Syntax:\
			let obj : \{property:datatype, property:datatype\} = \{ \}\
\
			let product : \{Name:string, Price:number\} = \{ \} \
\
		- It supports optional properties defined with \'93?\'94, which is a null reference \
		  character. \
\
			Syntax:\
			 let product : \{Name:string, Price:number, Rating?:number= \{ \}\
\
			 // Rating is optional in product 
\f1\b \
\
		- 
\f0\b0 It supports read-only properties, you can initialize a value but can\'92t assign. \
	\
			Syntax:\
			 let product : \{Name:string, readonly Price:number\} = \{ \
				Name:\'94TV\'94,\
			    Price: 3000\
			\}
\f1\b \
		    
\f0\b0 product.Price = 3400;   // invalid Price is read-only property.\
\

\f1\b 		
\f0\b0 - All object manipulations are same as in Javascript. \
 Ex:\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs46 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\cb3  \cf4 \strokec4 let\cf0 \strokec2  product:\{Name:string, \cf4 \strokec4 readonly\cf0 \strokec2  Price:number, Stock:boolean, Rating?:number\} = \{\cb1 \
\cb3       Name : \cf5 \strokec5 "TV"\cf0 \strokec2 ,\cb1 \
\cb3       Price: \cf6 \strokec6 3000\cf0 \strokec2 ,\cb1 \
\cb3       Stock: \cf4 \strokec4 true\cf0 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\cb3  \}\cb1 \
\cb3  product.Price = \cf6 \strokec6 5000\cf0 \strokec2 ;\cb1 \
\cb3  \cf4 \strokec4 if\cf0 \strokec2 (product.Rating)\{\cb1 \
\cb3     \cf7 \strokec7 // then print with rating\cf0 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\cb3  \} \cf4 \strokec4 else\cf0 \strokec2  \{\cb1 \
\cb3     \cf7 \strokec7 // print without rating\cf0 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\cb3  \}\cb1 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs64 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
		
\f1\b FAQ: How to configure array of objects?\
		
\f0\b0 Ans:  It requires a schema with array meta character. \
\
				 let  data: \{property:datatype\} [ ] = [ ];\
 EX:\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs46 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\cb3  \cf4 \strokec4 let\cf0 \strokec2  products:\{id:number, title:string, price:number, rating:\{rate:number\}\}[] = [\cb1 \
\cb3     \{id:\cf6 \strokec6 1\cf0 \strokec2 , title:\cf5 \strokec5 'tv'\cf0 \strokec2 , price:\cf6 \strokec6 4500\cf0 \strokec2 , rating:\{rate:\cf6 \strokec6 2.3\cf0 \strokec2 \}\},\cb1 \
\cb3     \{id:\cf6 \strokec6 1\cf0 \strokec2 , title:\cf5 \strokec5 'tv'\cf0 \strokec2 , price:\cf6 \strokec6 4500\cf0 \strokec2 , rating:\{rate:\cf6 \strokec6 2.3\cf0 \strokec2 \}\}\cb1 \
\cb3  ];\cb1 \
\
\cb3  \cb1 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs64 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\
	3. Map Type is same as in Javascript 
\f1\b \
\
				
\f0\b0 let data:Map<T, K> = new Map();\
		\
		- Typescript allows to configure a data type for key and value.\
		- Javascript Map can have any type of key or value. \
		\
		Syntax:\
				let data: Map<key_datatype, value_datatype> = new Map()\
\
			    let data: Map<number, string> = new Map();\
				data.set(1, \'93A\'94);\
				data.set(2, \'93B\'94);\
\
				let data: Map<string, any> = new Map();\
				data.set(\'93A\'94, [ ]);\
				data.set(\'93B\'94, \{ \});\
\
		- Map manipulations are same as in Javascript. \
		\
				
\f1\b \
\

\f0\b0 \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}