{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2867
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red144\green1\blue18;\red19\green118\blue70;\red107\green0\blue1;\red220\green0\blue5;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c100000;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
\cssrgb\c63922\c8235\c8235;\cssrgb\c3529\c52549\c34510;\cssrgb\c50196\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c89804\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww25400\viewh14400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs64 \cf0  10. useReducer\
	
\f1\b0 	- It uses application state.\
		- Application state is a global state that starts on application start and ends on\
		  application end.\
		- It can keep the data and make it available across multiple sessions. \
		- Reducer uses global state and handle communication with components.\
		- It comprises of the following\
	\
			a) Store\
			b) State\
			c) Reducer\
		\
		- 
\f0\b Store 
\f1\b0 is the location where data is kept. It is global in access. \
		- 
\f0\b State 
\f1\b0 is responsible for accessing data from store and providing to component UI.\
		- 
\f0\b Reducer 
\f1\b0 identifies the actions [trigger] in UI and update data into store. \
		
\f0\b - Dispatch 
\f1\b0 is responsible for sending the data from component to store. \
\
		
\f0\b 1. Configure initialState which refers to store.\
\
					
\f1\b0 let initialState = \{ data \}\
\
		
\f0\b 2. Configure reducer, which is a function that handles state and actions\
\
					
\f1\b0 function reducer(state, action)\
					\{\
							 switch(action.type)\
							 \{\
							      case \'93type1\'94:\
										update state;\
								  case \'93type2\'94:\
										update state;\
							\}\
					\}	\
	\
		 
\f0\b 3. You can use reducer in any component.\
			 
\f1\b0 - reducer contains state and actions.\
			\
				   let  [state, dispatch] = useReducer(reducer, initialState)\
\
				   dispatch(\{ type: \'91type1\'92 \});     // sending update data to store\
\
				   state.data;   // accessing data from store\
\
  Ex: reducer-demo.jsx\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs46 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 import\cf0 \strokec4  \{ useReducer \} \cf2 \strokec2 from\cf0 \strokec4  \cf5 \strokec5 "react"\cf0 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 let\cf0 \strokec4  initialState = \{\cb1 \
\cb3     likes: \cf6 \strokec6 0\cf0 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\cb3 \}\cb1 \
\
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 function\cf0 \strokec4  reducer(state, action)\{\cb1 \
\cb3     \cf2 \strokec2 switch\cf0 \strokec4 (action.type)\{\cb1 \
\cb3          \cf2 \strokec2 case\cf0 \strokec4  \cf5 \strokec5 "like"\cf0 \strokec4 : \cb1 \
\cb3           \cf2 \strokec2 return\cf0 \strokec4  \{ likes: state.likes + \cf6 \strokec6 1\cf0 \strokec4  \}\cb1 \
\cb3          \cf2 \strokec2 case\cf0 \strokec4  \cf5 \strokec5 "dislike"\cf0 \strokec4 :\cb1 \
\cb3           \cf2 \strokec2 return\cf0 \strokec4  \{ likes: state.likes - \cf6 \strokec6 1\cf0 \strokec4  \}\cb1 \
\cb3     \}\cb1 \
\cb3 \}\cb1 \
\
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 export\cf0 \strokec4  \cf2 \strokec2 function\cf0 \strokec4  ReducerDemo()\{\cb1 \
\
\cb3     \cf2 \strokec2 const\cf0 \strokec4  [state, dispatch] = useReducer(reducer, initialState);\cb1 \
\
\cb3     \cf2 \strokec2 function\cf0 \strokec4  handleLikeClick()\{\cb1 \
\cb3         dispatch(\{type: \cf5 \strokec5 'like'\cf0 \strokec4 \});\cb1 \
\cb3     \}\cb1 \
\
\cb3     \cf2 \strokec2 return\cf0 \strokec4 (\cb1 \
\cb3         \cf7 \strokec7 <div\cf0 \strokec4  \cf8 \strokec8 className\cf0 \strokec4 =\cf5 \strokec5 "container-fluid"\cf7 \strokec7 >\cf0 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\cb3             \cf7 \strokec7 <div\cf0 \strokec4  \cf8 \strokec8 className\cf0 \strokec4 =\cf5 \strokec5 "mt-4 w-50 card"\cf7 \strokec7 >\cf0 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\cb3                 \cf7 \strokec7 <div\cf0 \strokec4  \cf8 \strokec8 className\cf0 \strokec4 =\cf5 \strokec5 "card-header"\cf7 \strokec7 >\cf0 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\cb3                     \cf7 \strokec7 <h2>\cf0 \strokec4 Naresh IT Live\cf7 \strokec7 </h2>\cf0 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\cb3                 \cf7 \strokec7 </div>\cf0 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\cb3                 \cf7 \strokec7 <div\cf0 \strokec4  \cf8 \strokec8 className\cf0 \strokec4 =\cf5 \strokec5 "card-body"\cf7 \strokec7 >\cf0 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\cb3                     \cf7 \strokec7 <iframe\cf0 \strokec4  \cf8 \strokec8 src\cf0 \strokec4 =\cf5 \strokec5 "https://www.youtube.com/embed/QdznP9S1wS0"\cf0 \strokec4  \cf8 \strokec8 className\cf0 \strokec4 =\cf5 \strokec5 "w-100"\cf0 \strokec4  \cf8 \strokec8 height\cf0 \strokec4 =\cf5 \strokec5 "300"\cf7 \strokec7 ></iframe>\cf0 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\cb3                 \cf7 \strokec7 </div>\cf0 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\cb3                 \cf7 \strokec7 <div\cf0 \strokec4  \cf8 \strokec8 className\cf0 \strokec4 =\cf5 \strokec5 "card-footer"\cf7 \strokec7 >\cf0 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\cb3                     \cf7 \strokec7 <button\cf0 \strokec4  \cf8 \strokec8 onClick\cf0 \strokec4 =\cf2 \strokec2 \{\cf0 \strokec4 handleLikeClick\cf2 \strokec2 \}\cf0 \strokec4  \cf8 \strokec8 className\cf0 \strokec4 =\cf5 \strokec5 "btn btn-warning bi bi-hand-thumbs-up"\cf7 \strokec7 >\cf0 \strokec4  [\cf2 \strokec2 \{\cf0 \strokec4 state.likes\cf2 \strokec2 \}\cf0 \strokec4 ] Likes \cf7 \strokec7 </button>\cf0 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\cb3                 \cf7 \strokec7 </div>\cf0 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\cb3             \cf7 \strokec7 </div>\cf0 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\cb3         \cf7 \strokec7 </div>\cf0 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\cb3     )\cb1 \
\cb3 \}\cb1 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs64 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
 	
\f0\b Issues with Global State:\
	
\f1\b0 - Global application state is not predictable.\
	- It is difficult for developers to track and identify the changes in data.\
	- It is not easy to debug. \
	- Browser or Client developer tools are not enough to debug the global application\
	  state.\
	- It is not easy to maintain and test global state. \
	\
												
\f0\b  Redux JS\
	
\f1\b0 - It is a Javascript library for global application state management.\
	- It provides a toolkit for developers.\
	- Toolkit is a tool chain that provides features for building, debugging and testing\
	   application state. \
	- It provides complete environment for enterprise based applications. \
	- It provides 2 libraries\
			a) Redux Core\
			b) Redux Toolkit \
	- Redux Core is a minimal library with reducers and not recommended for large scale\
	  applications.\
	- Redux Toolkit is professional with all features from design to test. \
	\
\
			\
\
\
\
\
\
		}