{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2867
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww25400\viewh16000\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs60 \cf0  
\f1\b Routes \
 Route Parameters\
 \
  Child Routes:\
	
\f0\b0 - A <Route> component can use nested routes.\
	- It renders a component with in the context of same route. \
\
		Syntax:\
					<Route   path=\'93parent\'94   element=\{ <Parent /> \} >\
\
							<Route path=\'93child\'94  element= \{ <Child /> \} />\
							\'85 multiple child routes \'85\
							</Route>\
		\
					</Route>\
\
	 
\f1\b FAQ: What is difference between absolute and relative routes? [Path]\
	 
\f0\b0 Ans:  Absolute route refers to individual path. It can access and render component\
			 individually. \
\
						 http://server.com/products\
\
						<Route path=\'93details\'94  \'85 />\
\
						<Link to=\'93details\'94> Details </Link>          
\f1\b Relative \
	\
						
\f0\b0 http://server.com/products/details \
\
						<Link to=\'93/details\'94> Details </Link>         
\f1\b Absolute
\f0\b0 \
\
						http://server.com/details\
\
				Relative route refers to a path that is accessed with in the context of current. \
				It can referred as child route. \
\
		
\f1\b FAQ: What is <Outlet> ?\
		
\f0\b0 Ans : It refers to the target location where the resulting markup is rendered.\
				The child route target [element] is rendered at outlet position. \
\
		
\f1\b FAQ: Can we configure multiple route outlets? \
		
\f0\b0 Ans:  Yes. You can render child content at multiple locations. \
\
		
\f1\b FAQ: What are search parameters?\
		
\f0\b0 Ans:\
				- HTML form can submit data on GET and POST requests. \
				- Data will be in 
\f1\b FormData 
\f0\b0 when you submit on POST request.\
				- Data will be in 
\f1\b Query String 
\f0\b0 when you submit on GET request. 				- Query String in React can be appended to Route path as a key and value \
				  collection.\
				\
				 Syntax:\
							http://server.com/route_path ? Key = value & key = value\
\
				- React can access the search parameters by using 
\f1\b  useSearchParams() 
\f0\b0 hook.\
				- In Actual DOM you can access query string using \'93location.search\'94 and convert\
				  into parameters collection using 
\f1\b URLSearchParams().\
\
				  
\f0\b0 Syntax:\
							let [params] = useSearchParams();\
							params.get( key );\
\
												 
\f1\b To-DO Application\

\f0\b0 \
				\
		\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
 }