{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2867
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww25400\viewh14400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs70 \cf0 												
\f1\b React 19 App\
\
	FAQ: What are bundlers?\
	
\f0\b0 			- It is a software tool used by developers to build application and \
				  setup environment according to project requirements.\
				- There are various bundling tools like\
					a) Webpack\
					b) Parcel\
					c) Vite etc.\
				- Bundlers use a scaffolding technique. \
				- Scaffolding is the process of generating files and folders according to \
				  the developers requirements. \
				- 
\f1\b Ruby on Rails 
\f0\b0 introduced \'93Scaffolding\'94. \
\
	
\f1\b Create a new React App using Vite Bundler:
\f0\b0 \
	\
	 1. Open any location from terminal / command prompt \
		\
	 2. Run the following command \
\
						> npm    create   vite@latest     app-name\
\
	 		 Select Framework	 : React\
			 Select Variant 			 : Javascript \
			 Experimental Rollout: No\
			 Install Dependencies: Yes\
\
		 Note: Project starts automatically after installing, you can terminate using\
				   \'93Ctrl + C\'94\
\
	 3. Open project folder in VS Code\
\
	 
\f1\b React Application File Structure:\
\
	 \ul File / Folder						Description\ulnone \
	 
\f0\b0 \
	 node_modules					It comprises of all files related to dependencies. \
	\
	 public									It comprises of static resources like, images, docs.\
	\
	 src										It comprises of dynamic resources like:												css, scss, ts, js etc.\
	\
	 .gitignore							It configures the files to ignore while publishing on\
											    to GIT. \
\
	 eslint.config.js					It is Javascript language analysis tool.\
												It sets rules for Javascript in current project.\
\
	 package.json						It comprises of project meta data. \
												It defines dependencies and their versions.\
												Developer can change the versions in design. \
	\
	 package.lock.json				It is used for production. It can\'92t be modified. \
\
	 README.md					It is a help document by developers for developers.\
\
	 vite.config.js						It is bundler configuration file. You can plugin\
												external frameworks and libraries to project.\
\
	 index.html							It is startup page. \
\
	
\f1\b 4. 
\f0\b0 Run following command from terminal to start project\
\
				    > npm   run    dev \
\
					http://localhost:5173\
\
	
\f1\b React Application Flow [High Level]\
	\
	
\f0\b0 1. Client request react application from browser \
					http://localhost:5173\
\
	2. Browser loads index.html using 
\f1\b DOMContentLoaded 
\f0\b0 event\
\
	3. Index.html  loads 
\f1\b Static DOM 
\f0\b0 into browser.\
\
	4. It loads all dependencies from 
\f1\b \'93main.jsx\'94
\f0\b0  	\
	5. It creates a virtual DOM by using 
\f1\b createRoot()
\f0\b0 \
\
	6. It renders 
\f1\b App 
\f0\b0 component into virtual DOM.\
\
								app.jsx\
\
	7. App component is updated into actual DOM.\
\
	8. Static DOM is transformed into Dynamic DOM. \
		\
	
\f1\b Note: The process of converting static DOM into dynamic DOM is\
				known as \'93Bootstrapping\'94.\
\

\f0\b0 \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}