{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2867
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww25400\viewh14400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs64 \cf0 \
	
\f1\b Redux Toolkit Configuration:\
		\
	1. Install Redux JS and enable for React\
\
			
\f0\b0  > npm install @reduxjs/toolkit   react-redux --save\
\
	
\f1\b 2. Add a new slicer to project \
\
			
\f0\b0 src/slicers/slicer.jsx\
\
			- Slicer configures 
\f1\b initial state, 
\f0\b0 which defines the data to handle in application\
			  memory.\
			- It also configures 
\f1\b reducer
\f0\b0 , which defines the actions to perform and the\
			  state to update data. \
			- 
\f1\b Toolkit 
\f0\b0 provides a method called 
\f1\b createSlice() 
\f0\b0 for configuring slicer. \
\
			Syntax:\
				\
				 	const  SlicerName = createSlice(\{\
						name : \'93SlicerName\'94,\
						initialState,\
						reducer: \{ \
								action1: (state, action) => \{ action.payload \},\
								action2: (state, action) => \{ action.payload \} \
						 \}\
					 \})
\f1\b \
\
				  	
\f0\b0 export const \{ action1, action2 \} = SlicerName.actions;\
					export default SlicerName.reducer; \
\

\f1\b 			- 
\f0\b0 In slicer.jsx you have to define initial state, which specifies the data.\
\
					let initialState = \{ \};\
\
	 
\f1\b 3. Create a store
\f0\b0 \
\
			src/store/store.jsx\
\
			- It is global storage. \
			- It stores your data in application memory and provides to all sessions in\
			  application.\
			- Store gets data from reducer. \
			- You can create store by using the toolkit method 
\f1\b createStore(). \
				\
						configureStore()      
\f0\b0  : It is the used in previous versions. [deprecated]\
						
\f1\b createStore()	           
\f0\b0 : It is recommended for latest versions. \
			\
			Syntax:\
					 export default createStore()\
					 \{\
							reducer: \{ SlicerName \}\
					 \}\
\
	 
\f1\b 4. 
\f0\b0  Enable application state configuration on application start.	\
					src/main.jsx\
\
			- Store is a service.\
			- It uses a provider.\
			- Provider locates data in memory and injects into component. \
			- Components in provider scope can access the data. \
\
			<Provider store=\{ store \}>\
					<App />\
			</Provider>\
\
	
\f1\b 5. 
\f0\b0 Updating data into store from component UI\
			- React redux provides 
\f1\b useDispatch() 
\f0\b0 method.\
			- Import actions from reducer [slicer] and dispatch the payload into store. \
	\
		Syntax:\
			 let dispatch = useDispatch();\
	\
			 dispatch(action(data));        // on any event in component \
\
		\
		
\f1\b Note : To track and debug Redux install the extension for your browser \
					\'93Redux DevTools\'94.
\f0\b0 \
\
	
\f1\b 6. 
\f0\b0 You can access and use store from component by using store reference \
	\
				import    store   from \'93../store/store.jsx\'94;\
\
				store.getState().your_data \
\
 												\
			\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}