{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2867
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red144\green1\blue18;\red107\green0\blue1;\red220\green0\blue5;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c100000;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
\cssrgb\c63922\c8235\c8235;\cssrgb\c50196\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c89804\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww25400\viewh14400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs64 \cf0 												
\f1\b React Built-In Hooks\
   1. useEffect()\
			
\f0\b0 - It defines actions to perform while mounting & unmounting component. \
			- Component mounts after creation of component object. \
			- Component unmounts when user navigates to another component. \
			\
			Syntax:\
					useEffect( ( )=> \{ \
	\
						      // actions on mount\
		\
							  return ()=> \{ \
								 \
								// actions on unmount \
	\
							 \}\
\
					\},[dependencies])\
\
			 - Typically the mount actions include \
					a) Initialization of state with new values\
					b) Loading API data\
					c) Executing functions to get ready on mount etc.\
			\
			- Typically the unmount actions include\
					a) Disconnecting the subscribed methods \
					b) Removing event listeners					c) Reset the initialized values \
					d) Clean up the memory etc.\
\
			- A component mounts only once, you can configure the dependencies to \
			  re-mount the component. It mounts again when the dependency changes. \
 \
  Ex:  effect-demo.jsx\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs46 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 import\cf0 \strokec4  \{ useEffect, useState \} \cf2 \strokec2 from\cf0 \strokec4  \cf5 \strokec5 "react"\cf0 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\
\
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 export\cf0 \strokec4  \cf2 \strokec2 function\cf0 \strokec4  Login()\{\cb1 \
\
\cb3     useEffect(()\cf2 \strokec2 =>\cf0 \strokec4 \{\cb1 \
\cb3          console.log(\cf5 \strokec5 'Login Mounted'\cf0 \strokec4 );\cb1 \
\cb3          \cf2 \strokec2 return\cf0 \strokec4 ()\cf2 \strokec2 =>\cf0 \strokec4 \{\cb1 \
\cb3             console.log(\cf5 \strokec5 'Login Unmounted'\cf0 \strokec4 );\cb1 \
\cb3          \}\cb1 \
\cb3     \},[])\cb1 \
\cb3     \cf2 \strokec2 return\cf0 \strokec4 (\cb1 \
\cb3         \cf6 \strokec6 <div>\cf0 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\cb3             \cf6 \strokec6 <h3>\cf0 \strokec4 Login\cf6 \strokec6 </h3>\cf0 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\cb3         \cf6 \strokec6 </div>\cf0 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\cb3     )\cb1 \
\cb3 \}\cb1 \
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 export\cf0 \strokec4  \cf2 \strokec2 function\cf0 \strokec4  Register()\{\cb1 \
\
\cb3      useEffect(()\cf2 \strokec2 =>\cf0 \strokec4 \{\cb1 \
\cb3          console.log(\cf5 \strokec5 'Register Mounted'\cf0 \strokec4 );\cb1 \
\cb3          \cf2 \strokec2 return\cf0 \strokec4 ()\cf2 \strokec2 =>\cf0 \strokec4 \{\cb1 \
\cb3             console.log(\cf5 \strokec5 'Register Unmounted'\cf0 \strokec4 );\cb1 \
\cb3          \}\cb1 \
\cb3     \},[])\cb1 \
\cb3     \cf2 \strokec2 return\cf0 \strokec4 (\cb1 \
\cb3         \cf6 \strokec6 <div>\cf0 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\cb3             \cf6 \strokec6 <h3>\cf0 \strokec4 Register\cf6 \strokec6 </h3>\cf0 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\cb3         \cf6 \strokec6 </div>\cf0 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\cb3     )\cb1 \
\cb3 \}\cb1 \
\
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 export\cf0 \strokec4  \cf2 \strokec2 function\cf0 \strokec4  EffectDemo()\{\cb1 \
\
\cb3     \cf2 \strokec2 const\cf0 \strokec4  [view, setView] = useState(\cf5 \strokec5 ''\cf0 \strokec4 );\cb1 \
\
\cb3     \cf2 \strokec2 function\cf0 \strokec4  handleLoginClick()\{\cb1 \
\cb3         setView(\cf6 \strokec6 <Login\cf0 \strokec4  \cf6 \strokec6 />\cf0 \strokec4 );\cb1 \
\cb3     \}\cb1 \
\
\cb3     \cf2 \strokec2 function\cf0 \strokec4  handleRegisterClick()\{\cb1 \
\cb3         setView(\cf6 \strokec6 <Register\cf0 \strokec4  \cf6 \strokec6 />\cf0 \strokec4 );\cb1 \
\cb3     \}\cb1 \
\
\cb3      \cf2 \strokec2 return\cf0 \strokec4 (\cb1 \
\cb3         \cf6 \strokec6 <div\cf0 \strokec4  \cf7 \strokec7 className\cf0 \strokec4 =\cf5 \strokec5 "container-fluid"\cf6 \strokec6 >\cf0 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\cb3             \cf6 \strokec6 <div\cf0 \strokec4  \cf7 \strokec7 className\cf0 \strokec4 =\cf5 \strokec5 "p-5"\cf6 \strokec6 >\cf0 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\cb3                 \cf6 \strokec6 <button\cf0 \strokec4  \cf7 \strokec7 onClick\cf0 \strokec4 =\cf2 \strokec2 \{\cf0 \strokec4 handleLoginClick\cf2 \strokec2 \}\cf6 \strokec6 >\cf0 \strokec4 Login\cf6 \strokec6 </button>\cf0 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\cb3                 \cf6 \strokec6 <button\cf0 \strokec4  \cf7 \strokec7 onClick\cf0 \strokec4 =\cf2 \strokec2 \{\cf0 \strokec4 handleRegisterClick\cf2 \strokec2 \}\cf6 \strokec6 >\cf0 \strokec4 Register\cf6 \strokec6 </button>\cf0 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\cb3                 \cf6 \strokec6 <hr\cf0 \strokec4  \cf6 \strokec6 />\cf0 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\cb3                 \cf2 \strokec2 \{\cf0 \strokec4 view\cf2 \strokec2 \}\cf0 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\cb3             \cf6 \strokec6 </div>\cf0 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\cb3         \cf6 \strokec6 </div>\cf0 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\cb3      )\cb1 \
\cb3 \}\cb1 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs64 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 			\
			
\f1\b FAQ\'92s:\
				
\f0\b0 1. Can we define multiple mount phases for a component?\
				A. Yes. You can define multiple useEffects() in a component.\
	\
				2. Why we need multiple useEffects() in a component?\
				A. To render and define various actions on mount.\
					 You can conditionally mount different actions for a component. \
\
	
\f1\b 2.  useState()\
		
\f0\b0 - It uses the component local state created for component.\
		- It is mutable and accessible across requests in a component. \
		- It is not accessible to child components. \
		- It is destroyed when component navigates to another component. \
		- It is a memory that can handle any type of data.\
\
		Syntax:\
				const  [ get, set ] = useState( value );\
\
		- State uses a getter to read and return value.\
		- It uses a setter to re-initialize a new value. \
\
		
\f1\b FAQ\'92s: 
\f0\b0 Refer to your previous notes \
				\
	
\f1\b 3. useContext()\
		
\f0\b0 - It uses context memory created for a component.\
		- It is a solution for Props drilling. \
		- It makes the memory of a component accessible to its child components at \
		  any level of hierarchy. \
\
		Syntax:\
				 let  ContextName = createContext(null);\
\
				let context = useContext(ContextName);\
	\
				<ContextName  value=\{ data \} >\
\
					\'85 context scope .. for child components \'85 \
\
				</ContextName>\
\
		- You can carry data from child to parent by using 
\f1\b Custom Events. 
\f0\b0 \
	\
	
\f1\b 4. useRef()\
			
\f0\b0 - It configures a reference memory.\
			- It is intended to use in a background process.\
			- It can store value and provide without re-render. \
\
			Syntax:\
				 let   thread = useRef(null);\
				 thread.current = value / function;\
\
	
\f1\b 5. useMemo()\
			
\f0\b0 - It allocates a memory to store data.\
			- Memory is a cache updated only when any dependency changes. \
			- It provides data across multiple requests without re-rendering.\
			- It avoids round trips. \
			- Round trip is the process of requesting content every time from server. \
			\
			Syntax:\
				 useMemo( ()=>\{ \
	\
					     return data;\
	\
				\},[dependencies])\
\
				var  data = useMemo( ()=> \{ return data \}, [ dependencies ]);\
\
				data.find().filter().sort() etc..\
\
	 
\f1\b 6. useCallback()\
			
\f0\b0 - It is same as useMemo().\
			- Memo can memoized the data and keep cache. \
			- Callback can keep a function in memory. \
			- You can execute function without re-render.\
			- It can update when dependency changes.\
\
			Syntax:\
				useCallback(()=>\{ \}, [ dependency ])\
\
				const LoginClick = useCallBack( ()=>\{ \
							 setCookie();\
							 other actions on login..\
				\},[cookies])			\
							\
				<button onClick=\{ LoginClick \} > Login </button>\
\
	 
\f1\b 7. useReducer
\f0\b0 	\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}